- [Instructor] As microservices have matured,
so have the techniques used to secure them.
In security domains, such as identity and access management,
you're going to even discover general patterns
that have emerged,
like the ones we're about to discuss.
Using patterns allows us to abstract away
the finer implementation details
to see how a system works at a high level.
Our discussion will leave a few key points for later.
However, it's important we highlight two concepts
before we proceed, clients and tokens.
Client is a general term that describes any hardware
or software calling a service.
For microservice architectures,
this could be a mobile device, a single page application,
a Java backend, a batch process,
or another company's application.
Now, clients are also used by end users
to access their data on APIs or microservices.
We're also going to talk about tokens.
You can think of these as digital keys
that contain security credentials,
that open doors to resources like our microservices.
Like real life keys, tokens come in various formats.
Some are as simple as random strings of characters,
like a UUID, while others contain more detailed information.
These two concepts will play a key role
in our discussion of access control.
Similar to other parts of a microservice architecture,
the responsibility of managing a party's identity,
privileges, and access is isolated
to a separate distributed component.
For now, we're going to call this component
the identity service.
The service is important because it provides tokens
to client applications after an authentication event.
These tokens are passed in calls to the microservices
by the client to demonstrate its permission
to access them.
From here, the pattern can take several forms.
In simple and direct implementations,
microservices will pass the token
back to the identity service to verify its authenticity
before granting access to a resource.
There's problems with this approach.
It can create a lot of traffic to the identity service,
and as new services are added, it becomes apparent
the approach does not scale well.
The identity service quickly becomes the busiest service
in the system and critical issues will start to appear
when the system is placed under load.
One way to resolve these issues
is to route traffic destined for the microservices
through a reverse proxy placed in front of them.
Before the reverse proxy allows any traffic through,
it will validate the token against the identity service.
After validation by the reverse proxy,
the traffic enters what is considered
a trusted portion of the network,
where it can access the microservices
without further scrutiny.
Unfortunately, implicitly trusting the network
is sort of an anti-pattern.
Just establishing trust beyond the gateway
introduces security concerns that are not acceptable
for most systems.
This leads us to the next evolution of the pattern,
where the identity service places additional information
regarding the identity and permissions of the end user
into the token when it's created.
Now, the client can pass information regarding the user
and its permissions within the token to the API gateway
and subsequently to the microservices.
The microservices use the identity and privileges
found in the token to enforce access policies
without the need for any additional traffic
to the identity service
or just blindly trusting the network.
There are a few more security details that must be applied
when using any form of this pattern,
but when it comes to microservices,
these patterns combined with token based strategies
are the most adopted when it comes to identity
and access management.